[digital sputtering and beeping]
-[upbeat synthesizers come in]
-[whooshing]
♪ Here we are ♪
♪ Going far
To save all that we love ♪
♪ If we give all we've got
We will make it through ♪
♪ Here we are, like a star
Shining bright on your world ♪
♪ Today, make evil go away ♪
♪ Code Lyoko, we'll reset it all ♪
♪ Code Lyoko, be there when you call ♪
♪ Code Lyoko, we will stand real tall ♪
♪ Code Lyoko, stronger after all ♪
HOLIDAY IN THE FOG
[pigeon cooing]
[owl wooing]
[rattling]
-[door creaks]
-[snoring]
[howls]
[snoring continues]
[Jim] Hey, what are you doing here, huh?
-[dog whimpers]
-[Jim] You dumb dog!
Wait until I get my hands on you!
I'll get you this time, you mangy mutt!
[whispering] Yeah! Way to go, Kiwi!
-[spraying]
-[Kiwi barking]
[barking continues]
Jeremy, you mind telling me
what you're doing outside at this hour?
And that! Huh?
What's that supposed to be?
[comical trumpets]
[grunts]
[Jeremy] If I'd had more time,
I could've done the eyes better.
-[grumbles]
-[Jeremy laughs]
[theme music]
[fly buzzing]
[Mr. Delmas] I hope this
will teach you a lesson, Jeremy.
I don't understand.
A model student like you!
You should be ashamed.
Uh, yes, sir.
-How did it go?
-What'd he say?
Oh, he gave me detention
for the whole week of vacation.
[Odd] Cool!
He really let you have it.
As punishments go, you're a champion.
I'm sure we couldn't
have done better than that.
Anyway, XANA won't get
any vacation this time.
Am I dreaming or does Jeremy look happy
to be punished for the vacation?
Yeah, it sure is weird.
You'd almost think he did it
cause he wanted to be punished.
-I don't get it.
-Me neither.
And who's this XANA he was talking about?
Herb is right.
It's even weirder than weird,
and I'm gonna find out what's going on.
Huh? What're you gonna do?
Don't you have
to leave with your dad after school?
A little change of schedule.
[tense violin playing]
[Sissi] Daddy, can I talk to you
for a minute?
But Sissi, dear, I'm very busy.
It won't take long.
Well, there's this girl I know
whose grades aren't very good,
and the best thing for her
would be to study over the vacation.
But she's supposed to go
see her grandparents.
-I see, and who is...
-[Sissi shushes] I'm coming to that.
She knows that
at her grandparents' house,
she won't feel like studying.
So, what should she do?
She needs your advice, as a principal.
Well, my advice would be
to give up her vacation
and stay home and study,
for her own good.
Uh, what's this girl's name?
Perhaps I could talk to her.
You just did, daddy!
It's me!
Thank you for the advice.
I promise to study hard.
Kiss grandma and grandpa for me!
[laughs]
You get to go and see your parents
at the other end of the planet.
Yumi's off for a vacation in the mountains
and what do I get?
A week of math tutoring.
[laughs] If they think they can
make you a good student in one week,
well, I say good luck to them.
It sounds like Mission Impossible,
if you ask me.
You're sure you can manage
on your own without us?
No sweat. And if XANA leaves me alone,
I'll be able
to work on Aelita's materialization.
Oh, don't worry,
he's not gonna be alone.
I'm staying at school too, and I'll look
after him. I'll be his guardian angel.
Wow, Jeremy, are you lucky!
All right, young man.
You think this wall's gonna clean itself?
-[All] Huh?
-Get to work
[yelling] now!
-[laughing]
-Go on, laugh while you can, young lady.
Your father told me
to monitor your studying
-and that's what I intend to do.
-[gasps]
Okay now, get to work and clean that up!
-[Sissi grumbling]
-[Jim grunts]
I don't know why, but all of a sudden my
math tutoring doesn't seem all that bad.
-[scrubbing]
-[pops tab]
[gulping]
[water drips]
-[burps]
-[sighs]
[Jim] Come on, you can do better
than that. A little more elbow grease.
Keep scrubbing. Go on. You can do it.
How's that math problem?
Making any progress solving it?
-I sure hope so.
-Um...
Well, I'm a little bit stuck here.
Maybe if I gave Jeremy some help?
My father always says that
manual labor is good for the brain.
I guess all kids aren't lazy after all.
Good idea, Sissi.
Stay there. I'll go and get a sponge.
[Sissi] Oh, what a shame
to have to wipe all that off.
I guess I'm not the first one
to recognize your talent.
It's really well done. A work of art.
By the way, did you do it all by yourself,
or did your friend XANA help you a little?
-Huh?
-[tense music]
[suspenseful music]
[tense music]
[electricity crackling]
[hissing]
I overheard you talking to
the other kids about XANA.
She your girlfriend? Maybe I know her.
Come on Jeremy, tell me.
XANA's the name of a rock group,
but with all the junk that you listen to
there's no way you know them.
What do you think I am, an idiot?
[Jeremy] Uh, you said it, not me.
[Jeremy] Here, since you volunteered
to help me, it's time I took a break.
A little more elbow grease! Go on.
Keep scrubbing. You can do it.
Go on, you can do better than that.
[Jim clears his throat]
Uh...
[laughs]
[theme music]
[owl wooing]
[Sissi] Oh, I ache all over, I swear!
I'm telling you,
I never thought it was possible
to be this sore. It even hurts to blink!
Sissi, you should go to sleep.
Are you kidding? I can't.
What if Jeremy tries something tonight?
[Herb] Oh yeah? What?
I don't know, but he's up to something.
I'm sure of that.
And I'm almost sure this XANA is in on it.
Tonight's the night.
I'm going to play super spy.
I'm going to find out the secret
of Jeremy and his weird friends.
[Jeremy] I know I'm on the right track,
but I need the computer in the lab
to check out the figures.
I'm going to go to the factory.
You should go to bed, Jeremy.
XANA seems to be stable.
I don't feel any pulsations.
And it's not the end of the world
if I stay virtual one more day.
[Jeremy] Uh. That's fine for you,
but if you don't come, I have to spend
my vacation with Sissi and Jim.
I'll never survive!
[Sissi] Jeremy, thank you.
Thank you
for everything you're doing for me.
That's okay.
[ominous music]
[snores softly]
[owl wooing]
[dog barking]
-[clanking]
-[yells]
-[Jeremy gasps]
-[smoke hisses]
Oh!
[coughing]
[screams]
Now don't tell me
that you were sleepwalking,
because I've been working
here for 20 years,
and I've heard that story about...
Jim, something awful has happened!
Have a look in there.
[ominous music]
[Jim] Huh? It looks like
there was a hurricane.
This had better not be your doing!
But the smoke! It's disappeared.
That's weird, not even a trace.
It's XANA!
[Jim] Don't think about leaving this room.
Tomorrow, I'm calling your parents.
You've got some explaining to do.
I wouldn't want to be in your shoes.
[computer beeping]
Aelita, come in please. Hurry!
-We've got a big problem.
-You're not the only one.
XANA's woken up but
I don't know which tower he's activated,
but the pulsations converge
in this direction.
[ominous music]
-[ominous music]
-[smoke hisses]
[snoring softly]
[upbeat music]
[ominous music]
[smoke hisses]
It's even worse than I thought.
The spilled bottles contain
an extremely poisonous substance.
If the data from the computer is right,
the gas can
even be deadly in cases of
extended inhalation.
[smoke hisses]
[theme music]
Get up young man. Time to face the music.
Huh?
[Jim] Jeremy!
-[smoke hisses]
-[groans]
But, oh... What's happening?
Where am I? Jeremy!
I can't see.
I'm totally out of it!
What's going on?
[smoke hisses]
[screams]
[panting]
[Sissi panting]
[yells] Oh!
Uh, Jim, over there!
Smoke with arms!
This has gotta be contagious!
What's all this about smoke anyway?
Come on! I don't see any...
-Oh! Holy Toledo!
-[screams]
[alarm beeping]
[computer blipping]
Bingo! Aelita, I found it.
Thirty-seven degrees south,
in the forest area.
Okay, I'm on my way, but I'm nowhere
near it and I'm gonna need some help.
I know three volunteers who'll be happy
to cut their vacations short and help.
You'll soon learn that mathematics
is actually quite easy, young man.
All you need is a sense of logic,
-a little bit of common sense,
-[phone chimes]
and of course, if you have
good concentration skills, and if you...
[Ulrich] S.O.S. XANA. Jeremy
...analysis, that will help as well.
But I assure you,
if you apply yourself,
it's not at all complicated.
[indistinct airport announcement]
Hey! Come and have a look at this Charlie.
What is it? Wow, that's incredible!
What is that, kid?
Uh, it's a... Looks like a skeleton.
Yeah, that's right,
but don't you see anything strange?
Your skeleton is moving.
Uh... Oh! That's Kiwi!
Kiwi's my dog.
You do know that dogs are only allowed
in the luggage compartment.
Well, yeah sure. Uh...
I don't know what happened.
He was supposed to stay here.
With my grandma, but...
-[nods]
-[phone rings]
-Hmm?
-[phone ringing]
Oh, it's gram!
We were just talking about you.
What are you talking about, Odd?
It's me, Jeremy.
Yes, of course I know it's you, gram.
I'm sorry.
I know you've told me a hundred times
that you don't like me to call you, gram.
Yeah, okay. I'm on my way. Right.
[Odd] I'll bring back the dog.
Bye, gram!
We should have left over two hours ago!
You know how much she loves that dress.
I don't even know
what dress she's talking about.
[Mom] I'm coming!
I'll be down in two seconds.
-Yeah, I doubt that.
-[phone rings]
[Mom] You're going to laugh
darling when I...
No, I don't really feel like laughing.
Have you noticed someone is
missing in the back seat?
[theme music]
-[tense music]
-[Sissi whimpering]
-[exhales]
-[Sissi whimpers]
[smoke hisses]
-[whimpers]
-Shh.
[smoke hisses]
[Sissi] Oh, no!
-[Jim coughing]
-[Sissi whimpering]
[Jim] Over here!
Hurry up!
[Sissi] Oh!
[grunting]
-[Sissi whimpers]
-[Jim grunts]
[smoke hisses]
[ethereal music]
[exhales]
[beeping]
[ethereal music continues]
[Aelita] Jeremy, I'm coming
into the forest area now.
Yumi, Ulrich and Odd
should be there very soon.
Be careful Aelita.
There are bound
to be monsters around there.
I'd better go back to the school.
Jim and Sissi might be in trouble.
I've got to warn them.
-[both panting]
-[both] Help!
-Help us!
-[Sissi yelling] Help!
[Jim sighs]
It's no use.
We're finished.
No. No, we're not finished. Be brave now.
Jeremy can't be far away.
He'll help us out of this.
Jeremy?
That's pretty reassuring.
It's nice to know that the closest thing
to Bruce Willis is coming to the rescue!
[theme music]
[ominous music]
Sissi? Jim? Where are you?
[gasps]
[smoke hisses]
[tense music]
[both panting]
We'll cut across through the
boiler room. It's faster.
[coughing]
[both gasp]
Through the park.
-Oh!
-[Jeremy coughing]
[Yumi] Jeremy!
[Jeremy coughing]
Jim...
and Sissi...
are still inside.
We've got to find them.
I'll go.
Ulrich, wait!
[Jeremy] Yumi,
the factory.
[struggling]
You've got to go and help Aelita.
[Yumi] Oh!
-Hang on, Jeremy.
-[grunts]
[Odd grunts]
Odd, you got here in the nick of time.
Where's Ulrich?
[smoke hisses]
[coughing and gasping]
I only stayed at school
to try and find out
the secret of Jeremy and his friends
cause the truth is that I've been wanting
to be part of their group for ages,
but it seems so hopeless.
Do you understand what I mean?
Huh? No! All I understand is that
there's no ventilation in here.
We're gonna run out of oxygen soon.
I better stop talking then. Right?
Okay, I can take a hint.
[Man on TV] ...a strange and toxic smoke
whose origins are unknown.
[ambulance siren wails]
The elderly and children are advised
to remain indoors.
-[turns off television]
-[Jeremy] Odd!
Help me get over to the computer.
[groaning]
And get ready to dive in.
Stop looking at me. Come on.
There's no time to lose.
[theme music]
[Jeremy] Transfer Yumi.
[Jeremy] Transfer Odd.
[Jeremy] Scanner Yumi.
Scanner Odd.
[Jeremy] Virtualization.
[computer blipping]
[swooshing]
[electricity crackles]
[Yumi grunts]
[Odd] Where do we go now?
[Aelita] The activated tower
is over this way.
Hi Aelita!
-Have you seen any monsters?
-Not yet.
Guess you didn't look very hard.
[action music]
Ulrich, do you copy?
How's it going?
[coughing] Still nothing.
I've been through most of the building.
[coughs]
Ulrich, get out of there!
You can't stay in that smoke any longer.
It's too dangerous.
[Jeremy] And they may be outside already.
I'll try one last room, then I'll go.
[groans]
[coughing]
Jim!
-Jim! Sissi! Are you in there?
-[wheezing]
Ulrich, get out right now!
Ulrich, come on!
[Jeremy] What's going on?
Ulrich, answer me!
Look, I don't want to rush you my friends,
but it's getting kind of urgent here.
What about us?
What do you think we're doing, huh?
Getting a sun tan?
[whirring]
Odd, watch out!
Ah!
-Oh! [gasps]
-[grunts]
[Jeremy] You okay, Yumi?
[Yumi] No broken bones yet.
Take good care of Aelita.
[theme music]
[tense music]
There.
[panting] You see, Sissi?
I told you he'd come and rescue us.
[Jim] What the... ?
[Jim] Ulrich!
[Sissi] Oh! He came for me!
Oh, he came to save me!
It's just like I'd always dreamed.
[lasers fire]
[Jeremy] The only way to access
the tower is via a tree bridge.
But it happens to be behind the monsters,
and so you're gonna have to
find a way around them.
[Yumi] I might have an idea
for blocking the monsters.
You take care of Aelita.
[Odd] Laser flash.
-[Aelita gasps]
-[explosion]
[Aelita exhales]
[power building]
[rock rumbles]
[whirring]
[laser blasts]
[gasps]
-Oh!
-[Odd] Yumi!
If she gets hit one more time...
[Yumi] Jeremy!
[grunts]
[electricity crackles]
[mechanical clanking]
[Jeremy] Welcome to Earth, Yumi.
Hey look, a cell phone!
[Jim] Now we can call for help.
Jim, is that you? Huh?
Jeremy!
Where are you? And Ulrich?
-Jeremy, we really need help.
-[smoke hisses]
We're starting
to run out of oxygen in here.
[smoke hisses]
Oh no!
[Jeremy] Jim, what's happening. Jim!
Odd, hurry up!
[Odd] Well, what do we do now?
You take care of the monsters.
[water bubbling]
[ethereal music]
[action music]
[grunts]
[upbeat music]
-[Aelita gasps]
-[Odd] Hey, you! That's right, you.
Laser flash.
[electricity crackles]
[exhales]
[ethereal music]
[beeping]
[smoke hisses]
Let's hope it's not too late.
[Jeremy] Aelita, hurry up!
[rewind sound]
Return to the past now!
[theme music]
[Ulrich] I don't understand why you insist
on getting punished
with detention again, Jeremy.
Come on,
XANA's not going to reactivate this soon.
You could give yourself a short vacation.
Not as long as Aelita stays virtual.
And this time, to tell the truth,
[scoffs] considering what we've painted,
Jim can't be too angry.
[Kiwi barking]
Come to think of it,
[laughs]
I'm gonna stick around.
Anything is better than another one
of Miss Schmidt's math lessons,
even Jim!
[chuckles]
[Kiwi barking]
[Jim grunts] Get back here!
[theme music]